# AWS - Serverless Application Model

- SAM is an open-source framework for building, packing, and deploying serverless applications on AWS.
REF LINK : https://medium.com/@rolinh036/aws-serverless-application-model-sam-explanation-of-use-398f4f16f110

### Commands
1) sam init
- You can write your own serverless application and infrastructure. OR, you can use “sam init” to start with.
- It can provide you with some AWS pre-made templates to start with, where you can choose the types of templates, programming language etc.

2) sam build
- This command will build a project. This reduces a lot of manual efforts. For example, writing a lambda function would require some libraries, and you need to package the library with the lambda package.
- That is handled by SAM for you. You state the requirement in the requirements.txt, and it will be included once deployed.
- This build will generate a .aws-sam directory

3) sam local
- if anyone would like to test the application locally before deploying, “sam local” can help.
- You first need to have docker install locally for this to work. Basically what this command does is it builds an image locally for you to test.
- You can generate sample test event with sam local “sam local generate-event”. SAM supports events from common services such as dynamodb, kinesis, sqs, sns, stepfunctions.
- You can invoke a lambda locally with “sam local invoke <functionID>”, and pass the event generated by “sam local generate-event” to it.

4) sam deploy
- “sam build”, this command is important in SAM eco-deploy system. It will first upload the built application code to an S3 bucket,
- then deploy the application to AWS. This process is also logged, making it easy to follow the deployment process.
```
sam deploy -t <template file>  \\
--s3-bucket <indicate bucket for the built code tobe uploaded>
--capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM <in case of deploying IAM>
---no-fail-on-empty-changeset
```

5) sam remote invoke
- Instead of testing the lambda function locally with “sam local”, you can also invoke it in cloud using “sam remote invoke”, and pass the ARN & event through it.

6) sam sync
- Quickly sync local application changes to the AWS Cloud

7) sam local start-api
- sam local start-api is a command that you can use to start an API Gateway locally using the AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM) CLI.
- This can be useful for testing and debugging your serverless applications locally before deploying them to AWS.


